hi the hard part in doing a video like
this is just kind of introducing the
subject and delimiting what I'm going to
talk about because I do not want this to
be a one-hour lecture reflecting on my
extensive experience with not getting a
PhD so we're going to do this Francis
Bacon thing and start with one example
I'm going to put up on screen here the
text this is a very polite reply I got
from a ph.d program within the last few
months and so it opens by saying looking
at your impressive CV I'm not sure what
program we have here would be good for
you IE what MA program ph.d program at
that University go getting in MA that
would lead to a PhD it says well on the
one hand we have studies in ontology and
tippet ology and for that you need to
learn Sanskrit on the other hand we have
a modern Asian Studies program but for
this you have to learn Hindi so this is
a totally polite totally constructive
reply totally useful information but it
explains why this particular graduate
program excludes me um and why I would
not up for it if you've seen the list of
languages I've studied it is already
painfully long I've studied too many
languages for too many years and I've
grown old without becoming an expert in
any one of them I worked on the language
called pally for more than 10 years I'd
say and then I worked on all these
Southeast Asian languages that are
connected to poly low shouldn't I
Cambodian minority languages from that
area but then also to some extent
working on Burmese cinelli's lot goes
into that um and then I had to throw
that aside and study Chinese I feel a
certain point my life then I just
stopped studying Chinese start learning
Japanese I'm learning Japanese now i'm
currently enrolled in a japanese program
University of Victoria can so if you
tell me that I'm welcome to come and get
an MA in a page
university but i would have to
additionally learn sanskrit and tibetan
i'm not interested if you say well
you're welcome to come and work on
political science of asia but you would
have to learn hindi i'm not interested
and this is a nice letter because it
doesn't say vice versa it doesn't say
they're not interested me it admits that
I have an impressive cv that I'd be a
good student for them but those are the
program requirements that's what the
program to an offer and that's it so for
more than 10 years I mean probably like
like 15 years by now I have been talking
to different professors in different
disciplines by now it is a long time ago
it exceeded 100 professors now it might
be over 200 professors if you wonder how
that's possible while I didn't just
start professors in Canada I'm talking
to persons in Europe you can even tell
from that example I just looked at the
this guy English's in his first language
I talked to professors in Asia over
years and years going to universities in
person talking people face to face and
communicating by email what have you um
and my experience doing that my
experience being surrounded by having
friends girlfriends wives and so on most
of the people close to my life for
themselves PhD students or professors or
had PhDs or what have you I've known a
lot of people in the game different
stages in different ages last year I
talked to a guy he was kind of working
as an instructor and on a professor at
University Victoria and he gave a
lecture on how he selected his ph.d
program and his whole process took place
in about one month during what she
didn't do much thinking or or research
he didn't talk to any professors um you
know he was very busy with his own
studies at the end of his BA and he
looked around at different ma programs
and he sent out a couple of applications
without a lot of thought he got answers
back I think only two of the
institutions offered him a scholarship
he looked at the dollars and cents
involved which one would cost more money
or which one would pay him more money
and so on
and he made his choice I appreciate his
honesty and in talking about that
process now it relates to it uh but he
did not do anything like the process I
don't he didn't visit even one
University he did an interview or speak
to even one professor um and in my case
I spoke to dozens and dozens of
professors over again more than ten
years and I actually traveled in person
to universities and so on so my
perspectives are different and the other
thing is because I was in a position to
say no very often these professors only
talking to students you've already
invested tens of thousands of dollars
we've already invested a ton of money in
getting a diploma so the professor is
limited in what advice they can get if
you've already spent forty thousand
dollars the embarking on a certain
career path the professor is not as
likely to tell you look this is a bad
option this is a bad institution and
this degree can't lead to any employment
for you in my position they were free to
tell that to me and and and many of them
did I premiere especially with so as in
in London the School of Oriental and
African Studies famous University within
the University of London um a remarkable
number of people professors former
graduate students from there and so on
took me aside and said look this is a
bad university and this is a bad
department and here are the problems
don't do it don't come here and I
completely appreciate their their
honesty I mean you know and I took I
take that advice seriously one of the
things that's really underrated in the
21st century is learning from your
elders that is definitely more of an
18th century value that's kind of style
and how to learn from your elders I mean
there's you know obviously there are
tensions involved it's not as simple as
just believing everything you hear but
there's a kind of expectation I think
mostly created by Hollywood movies that
the young apprentice or the young
aspiring sports hero will be faced with
many challenges but will you know boldly
ignore all of the good advice to the
contrary risotto
this is my dream and I believe in my
dream and I want to do it no um you know
the mature attitude to take especially
towards advice about institutions from
within institutions if someone risks
their own job if someone risks their own
professional reputation to tell you
what's wrong with their employer so
that's basically what they're doing
they're basically ratting out their
superiors the basically what's wrong
with this institution they rely on to
pay their rent you need to take that
very seriously need to take that hard um
even if that person maybe doesn't have
your your best interests are you know
they may be telling you that for all
kinds of reasons they may be very self
pitying come over one professor him so
as who was definitely telling me how
terrible the university was because he
was self fitting I may be four kinds of
reasons but anyway look this is a
roundabout intro to say I have looked at
getting a PhD of course beginning with
an MA again and again over the years one
of the main reasons why it hasn't
happened what you see even in this first
example is the crucial importance of
language which is something i personally
subjectively emotionally and
intellectually feel or believe in the
mean value of any advanced diploma in my
opinion is going to be language
acquisition now when i finished my BA a
hundred years ago whenever that happened
there was absolutely zero language
education available to me in any of the
languages i wanted to study so those
languages included Burmese Cambodia and
poly allow sin alize we're just Sri
Lanka I was interested in a whole bunch
of Southeast Asia now um to be clear I'm
not saying that we were absolutely no
universities anywhere in the world
teaching or studying those languages
there were just a few but none of the
more options for me and most of them
were quite problematic like again so so
as I've mentioned as a bad
you know something that people warned me
about does so as really teach Burmese
does so as really teach Cambodian as a
language the answer that changes every
couple of years and I don't even mean
every every five or ten years they can
change from one year to the next it's
not it's not reliable or simple to
answer and I know one girl who went to
so as to get her ma in kamayan cambodian
khmer what everyone say in the Cambodian
language and after she had spent all
this money because England is incredibly
expensive for not a British citizen if
you're an international student she
spent all this money and went there and
they just told her oh you know the the
Cambodian classes were not making enough
money so we cancelled the Cambodian
class and now you're gonna have to learn
Vietnamese instead Vietnamese is a
completely different language with
Cambodian and politically that's there's
a huge war sorry there's a huge wall
between the two countries politically
there's also been a huge war between the
two countries both are true but in terms
of the effect it would have on your own
career aspirations just your own life to
be suddenly forced into learning
Vietnamese instead of Cambodian like
honestly in the whole world it's not
like the difference between spanish and
portuguese they're both profoundly
different languages linguistically in
terms of the vocabulary you're going to
memorize but the still today the degree
of hatred between those two countries
it's very volatile so putting yourself
in a really terrible situation this is
very far from the worst story i could
tell you about bad things that happen to
nice people in PhD programs but in case
the number one consideration for me has
been language and then also the work
I've done in languages has excluded me
from many university programs as you've
just seen in one example there are a
million other examples and that's cool
as long as everyone is honest and open
about it I have no problem with that if
you want to tell me hey
our program requires you learn Hindi I
say okay not for me um you know the
disappointing thing is that when i sold
out when i said okay fine i'll learn
chinese the mainstream language instead
of working on the language like lao or
poly something more obscure i still had
no options so that that is sad for me
it's a real source of sorrow in my life
and then when I couldn't study Chinese
anymore and I was forced to study
Japanese by circumstances that have
already been described in this YouTube
channel again a great source of sorrow
and a lot of things to to reconsider um
there's a really interesting historical
background to each of these departments
and disciplines the Southeast Asian
Studies the part of Southeast Asia I'm
interesting because I worked on Buddhist
Southeast Asia right I did not work on
Indonesia or Malaysia those are Muslim
countries I worked on countries like
Burma Cambodia Thailand Laos etc and for
a long time I would have very much
appreciated finding any academic program
that allowed me to further develop
expertise in that area generally
speaking there was kind of a very short
blip of academic interest and research
in that part of Asia during and after
the Vietnam War and then all those
departments collapsed and crumbled and
disappeared and even their publications
even the journals disappeared but unlike
chinese studies that has grown and grown
mostly because people have the delusion
that they can get rich by learning how
to speak chinese studies in other parts
of Southeast Asia have collapsed now and
the exceptions that will don't interest
me the Dutch in general still make a big
deal out of studying Indonesia because
they have a colonial history there this
is this link between the Netherlands and
Indonesia then nothing to do with me so
it's still called Southeast Asia but
it's not my area of studies so that type
of historical background you know
there's a lot more to say about it again
fits into the puzzle I'm not even
mentioning here the terrible history of
what's called Buddhist studies and tear
of Adam Buddhism and pally with the in
Buddhist studies I think there have been
some reflections on that in this channel
some of my blog and rating and so on but
as I've said bluntly on this channel the
situation that our studies is just that
there was absolutely nobody in the field
I could respect or want to become the
student of or work with whole field was
just in a terrible state when it
mattered for me for someone in my
generation aspiring to be a scholar in
that field the other problem the number
two problem I am encountering still
today is the definition of the
discipline itself what is asian studies
I receive much less polite letters of
projection from universities that just
right in to tell me forget it we just do
poetry so we don't want
this example this guy's is my CD is
well my CV leans more towards political
reality Social Sciences etc if you
define Asian Studies is the study of
literature and you only do say Japanese
poetry and medieval Chinese novels
romances books like the dream of the red
chamber that sort of thing um then you
don't want me as a PhD student and I
don't want you as my professor I don't
want to be a PhD student I do not want
to just write my opinions about
literature and that is the way maybe
departments of Asian Studies to find
what they do so then you get into the
problem of other disciplines well the
discipline is not asian studies what is
the discipline is it politics is it
history where are the social sciences
would someone like myself fit and this
is why I've spoken to so many professors
because I can go up to someone who's
professor of anthropology and say well
this is the research I've done in the
past of research i was inspired in the
future can I fit into your department of
anthropology one professor of sociology
have talked to at some length too and he
said yeah maybe um but each of those
this one's have different questions of
how they define the discipline in many
cases the definition discipline excludes
someone like me and again that's okay I
don't feel bad about that emotionally as
long as everyone is honest and open and
but what the requirements are it's okay
but yeah the result is we have a system
both nationally and globally that leaves
huge provinces of human knowledge
untouched if you think about the meaning
of the word University this is supposed
to be universal they'll give you an
example within my own province in canada
i believe the original plan for our
province was that the university of the
street in UBC in Vancouver that that
university would specialize in
Japan and China and that my university
in victoria wood instead specialize in
southeast asia and for that reason we
still have at least one professor who
does indonesia plan didn't work and
instead both universities to
universities were cannibalizing each
other competing to do exactly the same
thing to specialize in japan and china
and just down the street literally down
the street within the City of Victoria
there are two universities very close
together camosun was competing with
Victoria camosun college and university
ed teaching Chinese so universities in
Canada and Canada some was typical
they're tricky because they're not free
market but they're also not part of a
planned economy or any kind of top-down
systematic approach to anything
different universities are trying to
organize their budgets in different ways
and the results are nearly random and
the results are largely determined by
the personalities of the professors how
good they are fundraising how could they
are convincing other professors to
follow their lead university of toronto
the university i formally studied that
when i was a kid they had at one time
the largest department of sanskrit and
indian studies so basically department
of indians studies of india but
including Sanford they had the largest
department of that kind anywhere in the
world outside of India and some like 30
professors was ridiculous headed by AK
order now that word headed was part of
the problem what did it mean to be the
head of the department and it tore
itself apart and collapsed and when I
was there they had just two professors
doing anything in that field and
Sanskrit was not taught at all at the
University of Toronto it was there so
there was this ghost of a king orders
great accomplishment now I show her an
article way back then dealing with a
history of what happened at academic
department but one full year is nobody
in the Canadian government nobody in the
department of education and nobody even
working as a bureaucrat for the
University sat down and planned that out
nobody said okay so Canada it's a
medium-sized country we're going to have
one University that specializes in India
and one the specializes in Southeast
Asia were not all going to do the same
thing with Chinese no randomly you know
just to the conflict of personalities
and struggles were fundraising and petty
squabbles one University in Canada built
up enormous potential in the study of
India and then that collapsed and it was
never replaced by it's not as if another
University in Canada took of the slack
so if you wanted to be a serious in
dalla Jess if you want to study study
India Canada is not the place it could
have been in a parallel universe it
could have been there is now one
professor at University of Toronto who
is trying to build a basis for Burmese
studies study of Myanmar I wish him luck
maybe he'll be greatly successful that's
really just its beginnings and if it
wasn't an option for me in the last 10
years my whole life would be very
different if that program had gotten
rolling say 10 years earlier or even
just five years earlier then it started
rolling but now this institution
building process is happening but again
nobody planned that and on the other
hand you can have a situation such as
I've described where it seems like every
University of Canada is competing to
teach Chinese and to attract students
from China and to be Canada's gateway to
China and they are getting mediocre at
best results in many cases really
terrible results offering exactly the
same services offering exactly the same
courses on Chinese as a language and the
same incredibly limited opportunities to
do ma work and PhD work on say Chinese
literature maybe if you're lucky Chinese
politics and again I can say in a value
neutral way as that has worked out for
me for the time I was alive there have
been no opportunities for me to get an
MA or PhD many people when they first
mean II don't believe that
but then as they get to know me
yesterday I was talking to a professor
of Chinese Studies from Heidelberg
professor of classical Chinese and
Chinese language some of that and when
he started the conversation he get he
just didn't quite believe that i really
had no opportunity to get an MA and PhD
but after talking before about an hour
he got the point he really appreciated
that actually this was something I had
researched very thoroughly researched
thoroughly again and again over time and
again again on different continents so
that Professor he can relate to a lot of
things I was saying because he his own
education experience it a lot of
experience in Taiwan so when I was
talking about the difficulty and I
eventually gave up trying to get a PhD
in Taiwan he knew exactly what I was
talking about so when he could relate to
that and then we talked a little bit
about Europe which is he's a professor
here in Europe talked about the
situation Canada so right away you could
see the parallelism and then click and
he really realize okay that I was being
genuine and I wasn't wildly exaggerated
I was really speaking from experience
and saying I've done the research and
I've looked at all the options and there
were no options for me
you